>> Bianco Gandolfo: Adjacency List
is another top contender for
how we can represent a graph.
So what we do here is,
we have a list of all the Vertices,
and then we point to all
the adjacent vertices.
That's why it's called Adjacency List.
So 1 is connected to 2, and also 5.
So we can see here 1 is pointing to 2,
and also 5.
I am gonna stop there and
just show you the code,
because it's a little
simpler than this diagram.
So 1 is connected to 2 and 5.
>> Bianco Gandolfo: Right, and
this is gonna be a pointer.
This is not just a raw value.
This is pointing to an object.
>> Bianco Gandolfo: Why does that matter?
>> Student1: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianco Gandolfo: Why does it matter?
>> Student1: Cuz we
are cursing through it.
>> Bianco Gandolfo: Yeah, we're cursing.
If we didn't hold reference
to the value then,
if we didn't hold reference to the object,
we only had the value,
then we would have to search for
the object and stuff like that.
So we wanna point to the actual value,
but because slides,
this is just representing that pointer.
So this isn't really an array with 2 and
5 in it.
This is an array that points to an object
that has 2 that points to another object
that has 5.
>> Bianco Gandolfo: Okay,
>> Bianco Gandolfo: Questions?
Why do you think there are arrows?
What does that look like to you?
>> Student2: A linked list.
>> Bianco Gandolfo: Looks
like a linked list.
>> Bianco Gandolfo: Cool.
>> Student3: Is the 1, 2, 5, which is
missing an arrow because you forgot it or?
>> Bianco Gandolfo: Yeah,
the 2 to the 5 is missing an arrow.
I apologize.
But, yeah, good catch.
That's an array and part of it is
a linked list, that would be funny.
Yeah, whoa, that was interesting,
I haven't thought about that before.
Okay, so adding an Edge.
How might we add an Edge here?
So let's say we wanted
to connect 3 with 5.
>> Bianco Gandolfo: How about-
>> Student3: Constant to the power of 2?
>> Bianco Gandolfo: Well,
how will we do it?
>> Student3: Push the 5 onto the 3 and
the 3 onto the 5.
>> Bianco Gandolfo: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: Do we believe him?
>> Student1: No.
>> Bianco Gandolfo: [LAUGH] Yeah,
that's what it is.
Yeah, so you just push it onto the end.
This was an array implementation, but
whenever you see array, you can think this
could maybe also be a linked list,
and there's pros and cons to both.
>> Student4: Is that still considered
constant even though we're doing it twice?
We're always doing it twice.
>> Bianco Gandolfo: Yeah, so when you say,
so this would be, it would be 0 of 2,
which is 0 of 1, we just reduce it to the-
>> Student4: We
know that that was a time constraint is,
it's not variable to a certain degree-
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
we wanna think about it in terms of like,
what is the word?
What's the word guys?
We think about time complexity in terms
of magnitudes rather than exacts.
>> Student5: It's exact
then it's constant.
>> Student1: Right, part of it.
>> Bianco Gandolfo: If it's
exact then it's like 0 of 2.
But constant is 0 of 1,
but 0 of 2 is 0 of 1.
>> Student4: Okay.
[LAUGH]
>> Bianco Gandolfo: It's like an order of
magnitude since 2 doesn't,
there's no end involved, so
it's just like whatever it is you
just have to do to two things.
And this is, kind of gray,
kind of hand wavy,
but anyway.
Okay, so adding an Edge,
removing an Edge, a little bit different.
We can splice it out, maybe.
What's the time complexity of this one?
>> Student4: It's very [INAUDIBLE] for
you to find it, right?
>> Bianco Gandolfo: Hmm.
>> Student4: You need to find it each
time.
It's just not constant.
>> Bianco Gandolfo: Yeah.
So index of, right, remember I was saying
this is the thing that we should be paying
attention to when we're talking about
time complexity of these methods.
Index of, if you imagine, so
what index of does is it takes a value and
it searches, right?
The array for the thing, once it
finds the thing it returns it, right?
Any search is gonna be,
that's not totally true,
any linear search like this
is gonna be linear, right?
The worst case is gonna
be at the very end, and
you're gonna have to go all the way
to the very end to find it.
Now, that's how we have to think about it.
So that's linear, so this is also linear.
What about splice?
>> Student4: Splice is constant, so
we have the index already, right?
>> Bianco Gandolfo: Well-
>> Student5: It's an array already.
>> Student6: We have move
over everything afterwards.
>> Bianco Gandolfo: Yeah, so
if you spliced off the very first thing,
then you would have to move
everything over in index, right?
Hence, why linked list is a good idea for
this, right?
We don't wanna have to worry
about the added time complexity.
We're already doing work on a graph, and
that's pretty data
intensive data structure.
So we wanna minimize this
as much as possible, and so
we can just use a linked list.
>> Speaker 2: Awesome.
>> Bianco Gandolfo: All right, so
let's just compare for a second.
Adjacency List and Adjacency Matrix, side
by side, it's not so different, right?